The origin of the K't'haumi creatures is tied to the abominations of the deep in the Lucidian ocean. The bodies of drowned and forgotten sailors on the Lucidian Ocean who fell prey to aboleths, ixitxachitl, morkoth and the like, were often brought before a single particularly powerful aboleth, [[Nagh'Khun]]. Nagh'khun served Uk'otoa for a long time, until Uk'otoa's defeat some time ago. Leading a pack of deep sea abominations, they preyed upon whoever ventured too far into their domain.

The bodies of the drowned sailors would be tainted and cursed by these creatures, causing each of their dead bodies to be reanimated, bound to live in servitude to their sea demon masters.

Not very long after being enslaved by them, each reanimated sailor would start a painful transformation, shedding their skin several times, hardening and mutating with every moulting to gain more and more crustacean-like features. They started growing pincers, gills, eyestalks, antennae and a hardened carapace. Some mutated into a lobster-like or shrimp-like form. For T'hau, it was a crab-like form. 

Not only their physical form was affected by this curse, it also affected the memories of their former selves. With each moulting, they would shed a portion of their memories that would be incorporated into the controlling hive mind, causing memories to be mixed up among the K't'haumi. However, hardly any of this is known to [[Backstory|T'hau]] or their friends anymore, as they have gone through numerous moultings already, and forgotten their true past and former identity. 

The memories they do have are completely jumbled, a confusing mix of memories from other people. Most of these memories lie in the back of their minds, with vague flashes sometimes occurring when they remember something from a former life. Memories from after their enslaving bond was broken remain unaffected however.

Aside from their appearance and unfateful cure, all K't'haumi have another thing in common: they all have the occasional dream about the unfateful event that led to their ill-fated misfortune. These dreams all seem to happen on, near or above the sea. Crews  thrown overboar